Now we have practiced how we can use the template driven form.
And in this one, let's see how the reactive form is working.
So again, we are going to import a new module for this one and let's open that module.
And instead of forms module, now we are going to import reactive forms module.
So we are not going to import forms module, but reactive forms module.
So this is going to be breaking our tests at the moment.
We are going to update our test as well.
So in sign up component spec, let's replace from module with reactive forms module and also let's do
that in just test.
So right here.
At the moment the tests will fail because the current implementation is dependent onto this engine model,
but we are not using the forms module anymore.
So this is showing error.
Now what we will do is first we will update the sign up components.
Now these properties will no longer be a simple text.
These are going to be new form control like this.
So this is a form control object coming from the angular forms.
Now the template driven form.
We were doing all the things on the template parts like in the HTML part, but in reactive.
We will do most of the thing in the the component.
So this username, email, password and password repeat are all going to be form control.
Now we have errors right here as well.
And also these are not going to work.
Now we will be able to access to the values of these fields.
These are from control.
Now we do like this, this username, and it has value.
So we access to their value like this and we need to update this one as well.
So we are not just going to check this password, but we are going to check its value.
So moving it to the next line like this.
So now these are from control.
And in the template part.
We will do like this.
We no longer use this engine model.
And we don't need this name attributes anymore.
Just removing both.
Now, instead of this, we will have this form control.
And this is the form control instance in the component.
This one.
And we will do the same thing for the others.
So this is going to be.
Form control email.
And this is going to be firm control for password.
And this is form control password repeat.
Now we resolved the errors both in the template and in the component.
Now let's save all these changes.
And the tests are passing.
And the justices are also passing in this course.
We will see both reactive and template driven forms from this moment.
I will continue to use reactive form approach for the signup component, but later we will see a template
driven form in another sample because the forms are not just limited to taking the values, but it also
has the functionality to apply the validations.
And the validation part is showing lots of differences compared to reactive forms or template driven
forms.
By the way, typically the forms contain several related controls.
Later we will see their interaction or their validation point of view and like password and password
repeat are related form elements.
So when we are working with the validation, we will see how these are connected.
So we can group the form elements in a form group so we can do something like this.
We can define, let's say we will have a form and this is a new form group.
And this is an object.
This is taking an object.
And in this object we will have these form controls.
So just moving this into.
Look here.
And these are not going to be an assignment, but it's going to be like we are passing and Jason having
these keys and values.
By the way, there will be a comma here and this one.
And like this.
So we have this form group in it.
We have the form controls for the username, email, password and password repeat.
Now, we also need to update this one as well.
And now we are going to get username from this form, get username.
And from that one, we take the value.
By the way, this is form and this is a possible null.
So we add this optional and let's do the same thing here.
Get email value.
Get password.
Value and we do the same thing here from get password.
Well, you.
And this is going to be password repeat value.
So this part is done, but we also need to update the template.
Now instead of associating each with the the template.
First we need to.
Associate Hull form element with the form group we have here.
So like let's move this to a new line.
So we will have.
Form group.
We are binding to form group of this form and our form is this form instance.
Right here, this one.
Then in each of these elements, we no longer bind to the form control, but we just give form control
name.
And the name is the name right here.
So.
Username, email, password.
Like this.
So this is going to be form control name.
And renaming next to.
Like this and let's save these changes.
So the just tests are passing and karma tests are also passing.
We can also have a couple of more changes here in form submit event.
We are calling this event prevent default.
But instead of doing that now we are using this form form group and it is listening for another event.
It is in G Submit and basically we can make sure our on click sign up can be called whenever this summit
occurs.
So we don't need this submit and we don't need to deal with the event prevent default part and saving
this one.
So the tests are passing and also in a click sign up, it's open the component right here we are creating
this body object like this.
We are taking each of the fields and passing it.
Their body, but we could do something like this.
Let's get whole body object from this form value.
And this form contains username, email, password and password repeat.
But we don't need password repeat so we can just delete.
But the password repeat.
Then here we can just pass.
Buddy to it.
Let's save this.
And the tests are passing.
So this is how the reactive form is working.
Again, in this sign up component, I will continue to use the reactive form.